=pod

=head1 NAME

deal - bridge hand generator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 deal [ -ltv ] [ -e expr ] [ -i condition file ] [ -I format ] [ -s seed ] [ -[NSEW] hand-spec ] [ count ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

deal is a program to generate bridge hands.

When deal is first run, it will create its configuration directory,
F<~/.deal> and copy files from the deal system installation into that
directory.  Users are free to make changes to their private
configuration files.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-l>

Write deals in a "single-line" format.

=item B<-t>

Print distribution table and exit.  The distribution table is an
ordered list of all possible hand patterns for a single hand.

=item B<-v>

Be verbose, print sample count.

=item B<-e> I<expr>

Evaluate the Tcl expression I<expr>.

=item B<-i> I<condition-file>

File that defines the hand type to generate or the output format.
(Can be given multiple times.)

=item B<-I> I<format>

Read hands from stdin.  Formats available are: I<ddline>, I<giblib>,
I<line>, I<pbn>, I<smartstack>.  You might deal, say, 10,000 hands
which satisfy specific criteria, saving them to a file.  Then you  can
use  that output for input with deal -I to find out which hands
satisfy other constraints.

=item B<-s> I<seed>

Initialize random generator with I<seed>.

=item B<-[NSEW]> I<hand-spec>

Specifies the cards held by the specified  hand.  The  hand-spec
should be of the form: "AK8532 - KQ72 A65".  Voids must be represented
with a  '-'  character.  I<hand-spec> should be one argument, so the
string should be quoted on the command line.

=item I<count>

Number of hands to generate, default is 10.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML Documentation|file:///usr/share/doc/deal/html/index.html>, F</usr/share/deal>.

=head1 AUTHOR

deal was written by Thomas Andrews <deal@thomaso.best.vwh.net>,
L<https://bridge.thomasoandrews.com/deal/>.

This manual page was copied from Christoph Berg's (<cb@df7cb.de>)
manual page from the Debian project.

=cut
